# Caveolin-1 forms a complex with P2X7 and tunes P2X7-mediated ATP signaling in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages
Yuuki Sawai1, Yoshiaki Suzuki1*, Masataka Asagiri2, Shigeaki Hida3, Rubii Kondo1, Gerald W. Zamponi4, 5, Wayne R. Giles4, Yuji Imaizumi1 and Hisao Yamamura1*

# Supplemental Material
Supplemental Figs.S1~S5, Supplemental Table S1~S2 were shared here.

# Abstract
The ionotropic purinergic P2X7 receptor responds to extracellular ATP and can trigger pro-inflammatory immune signaling in macrophages. Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) is known to modulate functions of macrophages and innate immunity. However, it is unknown how Cav-1 modulates P2X7 receptor activity in macrophages. We herein examined P2X7 receptor activity and macrophage functions using bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) from wild-type (WT) and Cav-1 knockout (KO) mice. ATP (1 mM) application caused biphasic increase in cytosolic [Ca2+] and sustained decrease in cytosolic [K+]. A specific P2X7 receptor blocker, A-740003, inhibited the maintained cytosolic [Ca2+] increase and cytosolic [K+] decrease. Total internal reflection fluorescent imaging and proximity ligation assays revealed a novel molecular complex formation between P2X7 receptors and Cav-1 in WT BMDMs that were stimulated with lipopolysaccharides. This molecular coupling was increased by ATP application. Specifically, the ATP-induced Ca2+ influx and K+ efflux through P2X7 receptors were increased in Cav-1 KO BMDMs, even though the total and surface protein levels of P2X7 receptors in WT and Cav-1 KO BMDMs were unchanged. Cell-impermeable dye (TO-PRO3) uptake analysis revealed that macro-pore formation of P2X7 receptors was enhanced in Cav-1 KO BMDMs. Cav-1 KO BMDMs increased ATP-induced IL-1 secretion, reactive oxygen species production, Gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage, and lactate dehydrogenase release indicating pyroptosis. A-740003 completely prevented ATP-induced pyroptosis. In combination, these data sets show that Cav-1 has a negative effect on P2X7 receptor activity in BMDMs and that Cav-1 in macrophages may contribute to finely tuned immune responses by preventing excessive IL-1 secretion and pyroptosis.
